# CS50 LECTURE 2 - Arrays

[Lecture 2 CS50 YouTube Link](https://www.youtube.com/live/XmYnsO7iSI8?si=Q_f3HFfP8u5MjRfr)

## COMPILERS

Compiling is the process of transforming source code into machine code.

It follows a four step process:

- `Preprocessing` : libraries like <stdio.h> that hold the prototypes or declaration of functions like printf, are imported into the project. All libraries are stored in /usr/include.

- `compiling`: converts source code into assembly code

- `assembling`: converts assebly code to binary or machine code.

- `linking`: joins machine code of the main file, plus the binary of functions and libraries and creates one binary with everything.


on cs50 to compile a .c file, there is a function to make compiling easier.

```
make file.c
./file
```
`make` compiles file.c and creates "file"

`./file` is the executable (machine code)

clang and GCC are popular compilers

in cs50 we use "make" to compile a .c file but is just a way to make it easier
the real compiler in this case is

clang file.c
./a.out
mv a.out file

in this case, the output of clang is a file named "a.out" (assembler output)
then we could rename the file so it matches the file.c

using arguments with clang, we can simplify it:

```
clang -o file file.c
./file
```

when we use additional libraries like <cs50.h>
```
clang -o file file.c -lcs50
./file
```
## DEBUGING

- printf: is a way to print useful information to help us find the bug.

- debugger: for cs50 there is a simpler debugger. you just have to write `debug50 ./filename`

- rubber duck

## DECOMPILING

It would be the reverse process of compiling, where frome a compiled file, we get the source code. But for example, variable names, function names etc would be lost.

## Data types
- bool: 1 byte or 8 bits
- int: 4 bytes or 32 bits
- long: 8 bytes or 64 bits
- float: 4 bytes or 32 bits
- double: 8 bytes or 64 bits
- char: 1 byte or 8 bits
- string: ? bytes

